It was first created in May 2010 by Prof. Krste Asanovi, graduate students Yunsup Lee and Andrew Waterman, and the Parallel Computing Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley.

RISCV is an open standard instruction set architecture (ISA). The publication The RISC-V INSTRUCTION SET MANUAL covers the characteristics of ISA. Any implementations must offer a base integer instruction set architecture (ISA) and any further base ISA enhancements. RISC CPUs don't have branch delay slots, although they do support optional variable-length instruction encodings. The base offers a functional ISA and software toolchain that is purposefully constrained to a small amount of instructions that is adequate to serve as an acceptable destination for operating systems, connectors, assembly lines, and compilers.

ISA is not an assembly language. Assembly language is a programming language where the keywords are letters or words that are human readable. ISA is all about 0101, so the difference is very obvious. Of course, assembly language is a very low-level language, so every assembly language keyword has a very direct correspondence with instructions.

Secondly, ISA is not a hardware implementation, it is an abstract model of the computer. What is an abstract model? For example, a car with four wheels and a steering wheel is an abstract model. The abstract model does not restrict the internal hardware implementation, whether it uses an electric motor or an internal combustion engine, it is a car to the user, and the way of driving is the same. Similarly, a set of ISAs can correspond to different hardware implementations. Of course, as long as the ISA is the same, the way users operate the CPU with 01 is the same. If the CPU hardware technology is upgraded, as long as the ISA remains the same, then the corresponding compiler does not need to be changed.

So ISA is the interface between software and hardware, or the interface specification. It is not assembly language, because assembly language belongs to the software level, nor is it a hardware implementation document, because the implementation is the internal logic of the hardware.

About RISCV, there are many types of ISA, which can be divided into several categories, the two most important ones are CISC and RISC.CISC means Complex Instruction Set Computer, x86 which manages personal computers is an ISA belonging to CISC class.RISC is the full name of Refined Instruction Set Computer, some less common instructions of CISC are streamlined. ARM, which manages embedded and cell phones, is an ISA in the RISC class. Of course, RISC-V is also an ISA of RISC class.

RISC-V is known as the Linux of hardware, the project is maintained by the community, and there are no royalties and no hard usage restrictions for RISC-V.

Environmentally, RISC-V is gaining momentum. RISC-V has a latecomer advantage, as both ARM and x86 have been in development for many years and need to be considered forward compatible for large-scale commercialization, while RISC-V has no historical baggage, so the instruction set is very lean and the performance is excellent. There are now many open source versions of the supporting hardware implementation, and the mainstream compilers GCC and LLVM can support RISC-V.

RISC architecture is simple, so the area is small and the power consumption is low. The more consistent the instruction format, the simpler the circuit, the smaller the area, the lower the power consumption, and the shorter the time it takes for the data to go to the CPU and come out. In addition, the more consistent the instruction format is, the more time can be saved. Therefore, the more detailed the instruction set, the better, and RISC-V is designed to be a more compact RISC instruction set. Since CPUs are already counting fast, it costs more to make them faster than before.
