# True Random Number Generator and Pseudo-Random Number Generator

Pseudorandomness is a process that appears to be random, but is not. Pseudorandom numbers are periodic sequences that appear to be random and are essentially fixed, that is, random with rules.

Random numbers are widely used in computer applications, most notably in cryptography.

Random numbers are divided into true random numbers and pseudo-random numbers, and the ones used in our program are basically pseudo-random numbers, where pseudo-random is further divided into strong pseudo-random numbers and weak pseudo-random numbers.

True random numbers are derived from physical experiments, such as coin rolls and dice. It needs to satisfy randomness, unpredictability, and non-reproducibility.
Pseudo-random numbers, derived by certain algorithms and seeds. Software implementations are pseudo-random numbers.

As long as this random number is generated by a deterministic algorithm, it is pseudo-random. You can only make your random numbers closer to random by constant algorithmic optimization.

Finite state machines cannot generate truly random numbers of, so in computers, there is no way to generate truly random numbers by a pure algorithm. No matter which language, numbers generated by a pure algorithm are pseudo-random numbers, they are pseudo-random numbers generated by a determinable function through a seed.

This also means that if the seed is known, information about the ensuing sequence of random numbers can be inferred. This gives predictability.

The pseudo-random number generator uses a specific algorithm to convert the random number seed seedseed into a series of pseudo-random numbers. The pseudo-random numbers depend on the value of the seed, and given the same value of the seed always generate the same random number. The generation process of pseudo-random numbers depends only on CPU and not on any external devices, and the generation is fast and does not block.

